2017BCS-023

Yes i totally agree with the point that we are using more stuff than required.
I would like to point on an important issue here which is omnipresent yet we choose to overlook it. 
The over consumption and wastage of food in our country.

According to the agriculture ministry 50,000 crore worth of food produced is wasted every 
year in the country.Wastage of food is not indicative of only hunger or pollution, but also many economic problems in the economy, such as inflation.
According to Food Corporation of India as much as 62,000 tonne of wheat and rice has been damaged in the godowns in the last 6 years and wasting a kg of wheat or rice 
means wasting 1500 and 3500 litres of water. So you can imagine the intensity of this humongous wastage.
India produces more than necessary food yet it is unable to feed its population.

We too contribute in this food crisis. My personal experience as a hosteller, we daily witness the massive amount of food wastage in hostel mess. We all fill our plates with more than enough food and later dump that food with no regrets.
Despite a number of anti food wastage slogans we do it everyday , So yes it has become a new normal as people dont realize the intensity
of this problem and take this food for granted. No one realizes the numerous steps and hardwork behind production of food.
Due to this careless attitude  a large quantity of food which otherwise could have filled the stomach of the needy ones goes to waste.
This is not only the case of hostel mess but also in Indian weddings where I have witnessed such delicasies that too in huge amount go to waste.
Stats say that major metropolitan cities waste as much as 1000 tonnes of food annually in weddings.

In a country like India which is ranked 100th position out of 119 countries in Global Hunger Index, such careless attitude regarding food is abominable.
I think people should be self aware about how much they should serve themselves including myself and the leftover food should be distrubuted among the hungry.
Proper storage of grains and export of surplus products timely can save a huge amount of efforts, food and most importantly water, which is another crisis for India.



